France's Glavany cited on BSE, Hoof and Mouth Measures

    [Le Figaro] According to the latest AFSSA [French Food Health Safety Agency] 
findings, none of the suspected areas, apart from Mayenne, has proved to have 
been contaminated by hoof and mouth disease.   Can we consider France to have 
extricated itself from the crisis?

    [Glavany] I wish this were so!   Our confidence increases with every passing 
day, but it is to early to proclaim victory.   The phenomenon is far from having 
been brought under control in the UK: the authorities are pursuing it 
intensively.   With so many new outbreaks daily there -- that is, on our 
doorstep -- there is a great risk; the wind or the thousands of tourists and 
trucks crossing the Channel every day could bring the virus in.

    [Le Figaro] But has the battle been won as regards the risk of direct 
contamination by sheep imported from the UK between 1 and 21 February?

    [Glavany] Let us say that it is on the way to being so.   This is why I have 
asked Europe to lighten the restrictive measures that it imposed on us as soon 
as possible, on the basis of the provisions that France has adopted.   As a 
precaution, we have slaughtered 40,000 British sheep or sheep that were in 
contact with British sheep, and we have introduced safety boundaries.   France 
has decided to hit hard and fast, and we are now seeing that this is what had to 
be done.   I would feel more reassured if our neighbors had done thee same.

    [Le Figaro] What do you mean?

   [Glavany] I am not sure that everyone has monitored British imports as we 
have.   One of the lessons of this crisis is, in passing, that Europe must make 
progress with regard to traceability of sheep.   The British say that we are not 
the only ones to whom they supplied sheep during the critical period.   I am not 
talking about protective or preventive slaughter measures elsewhere, expect in 
the Netherlands.

    [Le Figaro] Are you saying this because Europe has not been kind to France?

    [Glavany] The European institutions have functioned well.   It is, rather, 
outside the EU that there has been a hastiness to do more than necessary and to 
confuse mercenary considerations with the precaution principle.   But, compared 
to our neighbors, it is true that it is better not to go down on your knee: it 
being the foremost agricultural and animal farming power, France will evidently 
not be excused any weakness...

    [Le Figaro] Francois d'Aubert, Deputy for Mayenne, wants to appeal to the 
European Court of Justice, since he considers the embargoes on Orne and Mayenne 
illegal.   What is your opinion?

    [Glavany] I do not encourage Francois d'Aubert to attack the European 
decision.   Europe cannot be criticized for doing its job.   Some countries 
wanted to have us subjected to a blockade affecting the whole of our territory.  
 We succeeded in confining it to these two departments, which served as our 
health shield.   In view of the sacrifice that is being demanded of them, they 
must enjoy the nation's support.

    [Le Figaro] Despite all the measures adopted to limit the spread of the 
illness, French people remain skeptical, and the consumption of lamb has fallen 
by almost 30 percent during the past month...

    [Glavany] This is critical, particularly since this illness is not dangerous 
to human beings.   The message that we are driving home, Health Minister Bernard 
Kouchner and I, is clear, however.   This is indeed an animal health problem, 
not a public health problem.   There is no reason for this drop in consumption.  
 But it is true that the succession of crises, BSE and then hoof and mouth 
disease, is causing reflex responses among the public.   The pictures of 
slaughter houses and pyres shown on television over the past month have played a 
frightening role and explain this rejection.   We really must abandon this 
disastrous psychosis as soon as possible, because it is having a domino effect: 
I have even been told that reservations at rural holiday camps in Mayenne have 
been canceled!

    [Le Figaro] The main victims are the farmers.   Do you understand their 
distress?   
DHL Airline's Safety Standards Questioned

The Belgian pilots' association BCA 
has serious safety concerns about European Air Transport 
(EAT), the Belgian airline which transports packages for DHL, operating out of 
Zaventem Airport. The BCA is voicing its fears in the wake of a whole series of 
complaints from members of staff at EAT. The maintenance of the aircraft is 
"below standard" and the maximum number of hours flown by pilots is not being 
respected, the BCA claims. What is more, EAT is primarily resorting to the 
services of foreign pilots who pay no taxes or social security contributions 
here. 
More than half of EAT's pilots have foreign identity cards. Most of them are 
individuals who find their way to Belgium via British temporary employment 
agencies specialized in air transport. According to the pilots' association, the 
payment of social security contributions and taxes are being avoided, because if 
they are being paid anywhere, it is certainly not in Belgium. For example, 
Portuguese pilots have addresses in the United Kingdom where they never stay. 
The pilots' association went to the public prosecutor's office with its findings 
18 months ago. The investigation being conducted by the labor inspectorate led 
to a whole series of protocols and the establishment of infringements, but so 
far no cases have found their way to court. Incidentally, EAT is by far from the 
only airline employing large numbers of foreigners. Virgin also does so, for 
example. 
However, it is not just here that the shoe pinches. Various sources have 
confirmed to us that these foreigners do virtually everything demanded of them 
by EAT, bearing in mind their weak social position. One EAT pilot came to the 
staggering conclusion that some Canadians had worked 28 nights in succession, 
which violates all the rules. They do this so that they can subsequently enjoy a 
few weeks' break in Canada. Admittedly EAT has been granted permission by the 
Belgian Civil Aviation Authority to allow its personnel to work a bit longer 
than the normal rule of eight days' flying, six days' rest, but the Authority 
attached a whole series of conditions to this and definitely does not permit 28 
days of uninterrupted service. For example, the pilots in question may not fly 
by day. Yet more than 100 pilots working for the company confirmed in a petition 
that they are having to do this. 
One Belgian pilot on EAT's books was deeply concerned at these duty times and 
after complaining to no effect submitted a dossier crammed full of details of 
violations to the Authority, only to be dismissed one week later for taking this 
initiative. Apparently the management's attention had been drawn to his dossier. 

Officially, the French letter of dismissal described him, in French, as "no 
longer meeting our requirements." This was emphatically denied by other pilots. 
"He was one of our best flight officers," they said. "A highly professional 
pilot, always concerned about safety matters. His concern about the duty times 
proves this. He only took steps after having flown on several occasions with 
copilots who were overtired." 
The pilots' association has also received a whole stack of complaints about 
sub-standard maintenance and flight safety at EAT. For example, some technicians 
have admitted that they receive bonuses depending on how much money is not spent 
during maintenance. Some pilots have reported that they were forced to fly their 
machine to Zaventem even after a technical fault had been detected, even when 
the aircraft did not meet the required Minimum Equipment List. Meanwhile, in the 
technical reports (called Trouble Reports), some defects are listed for several 
successive days, with a technician writing in each case that the problem has 
been resolved. Pilots confirm that the mandatory daily inspection by a 
technician is often limited to signing the log book. This is referred to as "a 
daily EAT." EAT, by the way, has 20 aircraft of its own and charters around 40 
more -- plus crew members -- from other airlines, including US companies. While 
these aircraft operate out of Belgium, they do not fall under the strict Belgian 
legislation and are therefore virtually impossible to monitor. 

Agalev [Flemish Ecology Party] Deputy Lode Van Oost, who has put questions to 
Transport Minister Michel Daerden on several occasions with regard to EAT, is 
regularly told that the Authority has not detected any violations. "I ask myself 
how that can possibly be the case," Van Oost said. However, after yet another 
question along similar lines was asked last week, the Authority has supposedly 
now launched an investigation after all, which -- according to our sources -- 
has uncovered all kinds of irregularities. The pilots' association also recently 
went to the Authority to talk about the problems at EAT. "We have nothing 
whatsoever against the company, but we are of the opinion that it must act in 
accordance with the rules," the association's president, Jean de Looze, said. 
When asked for his reaction yesterday evening [29 June], EAT's director of 
operations, Iwein Van Caelenberg said that he knew there were problems with the 
duty times and that these are currently under review. "So we are working on it." 
He pointed out that EAT has no option but to take foreign pilots into service 
because there is a shortage of pilots in Belgium. According to Van Caelenberg, 
the legislation here is not at all suitable for dealing with this "irreversible 
situation." He admits that the pilots signed a petition en masse, "but the 
questions were put so suggestively that they could not help but sign it." "Just 
like other airlines, safety is the single top priority at EAT and maintenance is 
carried out by the book," Van Caelenberg added. "There is no airline which gets 
things right all the time and where there are no complainers." 

    [Glavany] Of course   Any sector of society that were to experience what 
they are experiencing would ask questions about their purpose and their future.  
 They are at the end of their tether, but who would not be so?   This is why 
they must be given not only financial, but also moral support.   They are 
suffering the effects of two crises.   Consumption has fallen by 50 percent and 
exports by 980 percent.   In the case of hood and mouth disease, we must be 
brave enough to resolutely pursue the measures that we have adopted. This will 
make it possible to lift them as soon as possible.   In the case of BSE, we must 
accelerate and increase economic support to the sector.   I am worried to see 
that very few countries in Europe are implementing the programs for the purchase 
and destruction of cattle over 30 months old decided on 2 January.   We have 
considerable surpluses.   Hundreds of thousands of heads of cattle need to be 
slaughtered in Europe, including young heifers, in order to restore a balance 
between supply and demand.   The countries of the North oppose this.   But if we 
not do it, we will cause this crisis to drag on for months and months.
    [Le Figaro] We are clinging to the rationale of an agricultural economy on a 
drip.   Should CAP [Common Agricultural Policy] not be called into question?

    [Glavany] I admit that the industry's economic dependency is hard to accept, 
both for the public and for farmers themselves.   But I do not want to envisage 
a non-subsidized European policy, because that would reduce the number of 
farmers from 680,000 to 150,000, with all the repercussions that this would have 
on land management and the balance of society.   However, I do think that 
subsidies are badly allocated and that CAP must be reoriented.   But this is a 
separate debate, and it is not topical at a time of crisis.


Impact of Hoof and Mouth Epidemic on Franco-German Relations Viewed

    The outbreak of hoof and mouth disease in France created a strange backdrop 
for the meeting of French and German foreign and agriculture ministers in Paris 
on the evening of Tuesday 13 March, to resolve the dispute over European 
agriculture policy that has existed between their two countries since the Berlin 
summit of March 1999.   With the crisis perhaps helping to restore a 
level-headed approach, it was acknowledged that, despite the harsh language of 
recent months concerning the costs and causes of the crisis, there were possible 
points of rapprochement

    According to diplomatic sources, the feeling, following the dinner at the 
Quai d'Orsay [Foreign Ministry], was that the convergences were "stronger than 
expected."   Discussions will continue on "identifying the problems and 
challenges to be met in order to build a quality agriculture, taking account of 
the imperatives of food safety, using in the immediate term the freedom of 
movement permitted by the Berlin agreements."
Aviation Authorities Ground Airline Over Safety Concerns

In an unprecedented move in local commercial aviation 
history, the government decided to suspend the operations of a Colombian airline 
because it believes that the airline does not meet aviation standards and 
guarantee safety.  In fact, the Civil Aeronautics Administrative Directorate 
notified AeroRepublica 
airlines (currently ranked third in the country) that starting today it cannot 
fly any of the nine DC-9 jets that make up its fleet.  The jets will remain 
grounded for at least two weeks while AeroRepublica 
supplies Civil Aeronautics with the paperwork and documents containing records 
of the jet engines bought from the Alitalia company about four years ago.
According to Civil Aeronautics Director Abel Enrique Jimenez Neira, the 
Colombian airline did not achieve the aviation "certification" already granted 
to Avianca, Aces, and Tampa.

"As long as AeroRepublica is unable to meet the standards, it must wait and will 
be barred from flying because of concerns for safety. They did not pass 
inspection," Jimenez Neira said.

The official noted that the key issue that prompted the drastic measure is the 
fact that AeroRepublica has no records for most of its jets.
For now, the airline has the possibility of flying again with three of its nine 
jets. It all depends on the results of the inspection that Civil Aeronautics 
inspectors are planning to make in the next four days of the three jets that 
have not been checked.
If AeroRepublica is able to supply all of its documents in order, the three DC-9 
jets will be allowed to fly. Otherwise, they will remain grounded like the rest 
of the jets until the standards are met.
The civil aeronautics director stated that the airline can also choose to bring 
other planes into the country (leased) as long as they conform to international 
aviation safety standards. Jimenez stated that the suspension of 
operations does not mean that problems or 
mechanical failures were detected on AeroRepublica jets, but that the deadline 
ran out yesterday for the airline to comply with all safety standards in order 
for it to be certified.

As is known, certification was a measure or an inspection that Civil Aeronautics 
started implementing last year at the recommendation of the U.S. Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), in compliance with the standards set forth by the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the world's top organization 
governing the airline industry.
The certification process consisted of a Civil Aeronautics inspection of 
operation manuals, pilot qualifications, maintenance files, and the aviation 
practices used in order to determine if the airlines were adhering to 
international standards.
State Council Approves Plan for Forming Police Force To Ensure Airline Safety

    Beijing, 6 Feb (Xinhua) -- Liu Jianfeng, director of the Civil Aviation 
Administration of China [CAAC], told Xinhua today that the State Council had 
approved the plan for the restructuring of China's civil aviation 
administration.   He said the plan includes the proposal of forming a people's 
police force for China's airlines.   
Liu Jianfeng disclosed that the police force will have about 2,000 men, whom 
the CAAC Public Security Bureau will be assigned to different airlines.   He 
added that the police force will be under the administration of the CAAC Public 
Security Bureau and the domestic airlines.   Liu Jianfeng indicated that members 
of the police force will primarily be assigned to major domestic and 
international flights.   

    It is reported that departments concerned are now studying the details of 
the formation of the police force in the air, and that the time for the 
formation of the police force is still uncertain.   

    An authoritative source says that the move will enable China to ensure 
passengers' travel safety by lawfully tightening the fight against aircraft 
hijacking by terrorists. 

Precisely because it did not fulfill the duty of monitoring these checks and 
balances with respect to Colombian airlines, the FAA decided in October 1995 to 
lower Civil Aeronautics's rating from category one to category two, after 
determining that Civil Aeronautics was not performing its duty of monitoring 
operations and that Colombian aviation was not safe enough.
Last year, Civil Aeronautics certified the three Colombian airlines that have 
regularly scheduled flights to the United States: Avianca, Aces, and Tampa. It 
began the same certification process this year with domestic carriers, and 
AeroRepublica was the first to be selected.
After setting a deadline for the airline to submit all documents, Civil 
Aeronautics found deficiencies in the records of the jets and engine turbines, 
so it proceeded to ground the airline until it supplies the data.

    This unusual meeting, which brought together two of Lionel Jospin's 
ministers, Hubert Vedrine and Jean Glavany, and the two leading German Greens 
representatives within the Schroeder team, Joschka Fischer and Renate Kuenst, 
was set within the framework of the two capitals' current efforts to try to 
restore less uneasy relations by resolving topics of friction.   There have been 
several meetings since January, following the crisis sparked by the Nice summit. 
  President Chirac, the Prime Minister, and Chancellor Schroeder will be meeting 
in Herxheim 20 March in order to review the exploratory work that they have 
entrusted to their foreign ministers.

    The crisis experienced by stock farming, a real   challenge to the EU's 
cohesion, has revived suspicions.   Confronted with the scale of the 
repercussions on the rural fabric, France wanted more aid, whereas Germany has 
rejected the rationale of endless subsidies.   The outbreak of hoof and mouth 
disease has exacerbated the climate, all governments being obliged to step up 
precautionary measures.   Having tried to confine the virus to the other side of 
the Channel, France in turn is now in quarantine.   Several German Laender have 
announced the destruction of animals that have arrived in recent weeks from 
French areas at risk and have urged their citizens to limit travel to France.

    Realization [subhead]

    Paradoxically, however, the first cases of mad cow's disease to appear in 
Germany, last fall, created a more favorable situation for dialogue.   Having 
been tasked in January with reappraising Germany's agricultural policy, the new 
Agriculture Minister promptly called for a radial change of course.   "Quality 
rather than mass production," was the watchword reaffirmed this weekend by the 
German Greens' Congress in Stuttgart.   This turnabout, which is causing anxiety 
within the profession, especially in France, nevertheless reflects the 
realization in Germany both that farming is not just a matter for farmers and 
also that, even within our urban societies, it extends to more a more complex 
range of factors.

    France's Socialist government, which has worked since its accession to power 
to promote agriculture more respectful of its environment, by offering farmers 
new land use contracts, is ready to take the Germans at their word.   It was 
easy for French Agriculture Minister to point out, in an interview published by 
Les Echos 8 March, that Germany also opposed a modification of aid for quality 
agriculture, and has not hitherto used the opportunities opened up in this 
direction by the Berlin agreements.   Anticipating the German Greens' Congress, 
he argued the need for farmers to "reach a new contract with society to move on 
from producing more to producing better."   He said that when the time for the 
review of CAP comes in 2003, "it would be useful to be able to issue strong 
political signals, showing that we have learned our lessons from the crises and 
received the message from the public."
