The Belgian airline which transports packages for DHL, operating out of 
Zaventem Airport. The BCA is voicing its fears in the wake of a whole series of 
complaints from members of staff at EAT. The maintenance of the aircraft is 
"below standard" and the maximum number of hours flown by pilots is not being 
respected, the BCA claims. What is more, EAT is primarily resorting to the 
services of foreign pilots who pay no taxes or social security contributions 
here. More than half of EAT's pilots have foreign identity cards. Most of them are 
individuals who find their way to Belgium via British temporary employment 
agencies specialized in air transport. According to the pilots' association, the 
payment of social security contributions and taxes are being avoided, because if 
they are being paid anywhere, it is certainly not in Belgium. For example, 
Portuguese pilots have addresses in the United Kingdom where they never stay. 
The pilots' association went to the public prosecutor's office with its findings 
18 months ago. The investigation being conducted by the labor inspectorate led 
to a whole series of protocols and the establishment of infringements, but so 
far no cases have found their way to court. Incidentally, EAT is by far from the 
only airline employing large numbers of foreigners. Virgin also does so, for 
example. However, it is not just here that the shoe pinches. Various sources have 
confirmed to us that these foreigners do virtually everything demanded of them 
by EAT, bearing in mind their weak social position. One EAT pilot came to the 
staggering conclusion that some Canadians had worked 28 nights in succession, 
which violates all the rules. They do this so that they can subsequently enjoy a 
few weeks' break in Canada. In fact, the Civil Aeronautics Administrative Directorate 
notified AeroRepublica airlines (currently ranked third in the country) that starting today it cannot 
fly any of the nine DC-9 jets that make up its fleet.  The jets will remain 
grounded for at least two weeks while AeroRepublica 
supplies Civil Aeronautics with the paperwork and documents containing records 
of the jet engines bought from the Alitalia company about four years ago.
According to Civil Aeronautics Director Abel Enrique Jimenez Neira, the 
Colombian airline did not achieve the aviation "certification" already granted 
to Avianca, Aces, and Tampa. As is known, certification was a measure or an inspection that Civil Aeronautics 
started implementing last year at the recommendation of the U.S. Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), in compliance with the standards set forth by the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the world's top organization 
governing the airline industry.
The certification process consisted of a Civil Aeronautics inspection of 
operation manuals, pilot qualifications, maintenance files, and the aviation 
practices used in order to determine if the airlines were adhering to 
international standards. Precisely because it did not fulfill the duty of monitoring these checks and 
balances with respect to Colombian airlines, the FAA decided in October 1995 to 
lower Civil Aeronautics's rating from category one to category two, after 
determining that Civil Aeronautics was not performing its duty of monitoring 
operations and that Colombian aviation was not safe enough.
Last year, Civil Aeronautics certified the three Colombian airlines that have 
regularly scheduled flights to the United States: Avianca, Aces, and Tampa. It 
began the same certification process this year with domestic carriers, and 
AeroRepublica was the first to be selected.
