"Safe Wings," the Tempio Pausania [Sardinia] Public Prosecutor's Office 
investigation, has revealed this alarming situation:   the market in spare parts 
and electronic flight instruments.   However, regardless of what the 
investigation manages to prove in terms of criminal liability, it is already 
clear -- as the ENAC [National Civil Aviation Board] initiative shows -- that 
the Sardinian investigators' work has lifted the lid on a trade that has been 
going on for years. It was the night of 25 April 1999 when six bandits armed with had grenades 
and kalashnikovs broke into the Olbia airport maintenance hangar and stole spare 
parts.   Setting off from that robbery, Tempio Pausania's Deputy Public 
Prosecutor, Renato Perinu, came across an illegal trade in avionic equipment 
obtained chiefly from the dismantling of damaged or decommissioned aircraft.   
For the suspects' defense lawyers, of course, it was a normal spare parts 
business. The charges made against the suspects largely involve three offences:   
counterfeiting documents, posing a threat to public air transport safety, and 
extortion, although the latter charge concerns only one of the suspects.   It is 
the most serious crime, which allows the investigation to remain, for the time 
being at least, in Tempio Pausania instead of being transferred to Rome.   The 
episodes stated in the court order involve Paolo Pietro Corrias, a Meridiana SPA 
employee, who is charged with obtaining 7 percent of the sum invoiced (over 
31,500 euros in all) for supplies of aircraft parts bound for Meridiana from 
Newtech Italia and Newtech Aerospace Managing Director Gino Boselli.   Corrias 
is also charged with obtaining the same 7 percent (over 7,700 euros) from US 
company Mitchell Air Kraft's representative in Italy, George Schuster for 
guaranteeing the supply of aircraft parts bound for Meridiana.   It also has to 
be said, however, that GIP Ponassi herself states that "there is no grave 
evidence" of Corrias "being guilty of the crime of extortion." To date, the Finance Police investigators have managed to ascertain the 
origins of a tiny proportion of the material sold:   parts of the Canadair 
C1-215 that crashed in Sicily in 1996, equipment (a fuel level indicator) 
discarded by the ex-Adria Airways (former Yugoslavia), aircraft parts (from the 
Canadair) obtained from Montalto Brothers of Palermo (who specialize in 
demolishing written-off cars), and parts bought from the former Itavia.
The investigation continues, and the magistrates have not yet questioned the 
suspects arrested on Thursday.   The investigators are examining the paperwork 
seized over the last few days.   The defense teams are already announcing that 
they will fight the case before the Review Court.
